Add troubleshooting guide for LDAP (#1173)
sensu/sensu-docs: content/sensu-go/5.2/installation/auth.md

type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"name": "openldap"{{< /highlight >}}

## LDAP troubleshooting

> In order to thoubleshoot any issue with LDAP authentication, the first step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to troubleshoot any issue with LDAP authentication, the first step
```

should always be to [increase log verbosity][19] of sensu-backend. Most
authentication and authorization errors are only displayed on the debug log
level, in order to avoid flooding the log files.

_NOTE: If you can't locate any log entry around LDAP authentication, make sure
the LDAP provider was successfully installed using [sensuctl][20]_

### Authentication problems

Here are some common error messages and possible solutions:

**Error message**: `failed to connect: LDAP Result Code 200 "Network Error"`

The LDAP provider couldn't establish a TCP connection to the LDAP server. Verify
the `host` & `port` attributes. If you are not using LDAP over TLS/SSL , make

> sure to adjust `security` attribute because its default value is `"tls"`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sure to set the value of the `security` attribute to `"insecure"` for plaintext communication.
```

**Error message**: `certificate signed by unknown authority`

If you are using a self-signed certificate, make sure to set the `insecure`

> attribute to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
attribute to `true`. This will bypass verification of the certificate's signing authority.
```

- Adjust the `attribute` so its value (which corresponds to the *username*) is
  unique amongst the user entries
- Adjust the `base_dn` so it only includes one of the user entries

**Error message**: `ldap entry <DN> missing required attribute <name_attribute>`

The user entry returned (identified by `<DN>`) doesn't include the attribute
specified by [`name_attribute` object][22]. Therefore the LDAP provider could
not determine which attribute to use as the username in the user entry. The
`name_attribute` should be adjusted so it specifies a human friendly name for
the user. 

**Error message**: `ldap group entry <DN> missing <name_attribute> and cn attributes`

The group search returned a group entry (identified by `<DN>`) that doesn't have
the [`name_attribute` attribute][21] nor a `cn` attribute. Therefore the LDAP
provider could not determine which attribute to use as the group name in the
group entry. The `name_attribute` should be adjusted so it specifies a human
friendly name for the group.

### Authorization problems

Once authenticated, a user needs to be granted permissions via either a
`ClusterRoleBinding` or a `RoleBinding`.

> The way in which LDAP users and LDAP groups can be referred as subjects depends

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The way in which LDAP users and LDAP groups can be referred as subjects of a cluster role or role binding depends
```

type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"name": "openldap"{{< /highlight >}}

## LDAP troubleshooting

In order to troubleshoot any issue with LDAP authentication, the first step

> should always be to [increase log verbosity][19] of sensu-backend. Most

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
should always be to [increase log verbosity][19] of sensu-backend to the debug log level. Most
```

authentication and authorization errors are only displayed on the debug log
level, in order to avoid flooding the log files.

> _NOTE: If you can't locate any log entry around LDAP authentication, make sure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_NOTE: If you can't locate any log entries referencing LDAP authentication, make sure
```

the LDAP provider was successfully installed using [sensuctl][20]_

> ### Authentication problems

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Authentication errors
```

sure to set the value of the `security` attribute to `"insecure"` for plaintext
communication.

 **Error message**: `certificate signed by unknown authority`

If you are using a self-signed certificate, make sure to set the `insecure`
attribute to `true`. This will bypass verification of the certificate's signing
authority.

**Error message**: `failed to bind: ...`

The first step for authenticating a user with the LDAP provider is to bind to
the LDAP server using the service account specified in the [`binding`
object](#binding-attributes). Make sure the `user_dn` specifies a valid **DN**,
and its password is the right one.

**Error message**: `user <username> was not found`

The user search failed, no user account could be found with the given username.
Go look at the [`user_search` object][22] and make sure that:

- The specified `base_dn` contains the requested user entry DN
- The specified `attribute` contains the _username_ as its value in the user entry
- The `object_class` attribute corresponds to the user entry object class

**Error message**: `ldap search for user <username> returned x results, expected only 1`

> The user search returned more than 1 user entry, therefore the provider could

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The user search returned more than one user entry, therefore the provider could
```

object][22] needs to be tweaked so the provided *username* can be used to
uniquely identify a user entry. Here's few possible way of doing it:

- Adjust the `attribute` so its value (which corresponds to the *username*) is
  unique amongst the user entries
- Adjust the `base_dn` so it only includes one of the user entries

**Error message**: `ldap entry <DN> missing required attribute <name_attribute>`

The user entry returned (identified by `<DN>`) doesn't include the attribute
specified by [`name_attribute` object][22]. Therefore the LDAP provider could
not determine which attribute to use as the username in the user entry. The
`name_attribute` should be adjusted so it specifies a human friendly name for
the user. 

**Error message**: `ldap group entry <DN> missing <name_attribute> and cn attributes`

The group search returned a group entry (identified by `<DN>`) that doesn't have
the [`name_attribute` attribute][21] nor a `cn` attribute. Therefore the LDAP
provider could not determine which attribute to use as the group name in the
group entry. The `name_attribute` should be adjusted so it specifies a human
friendly name for the group.

> ### Authorization problems

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Authorization issues
```

Once authenticated, a user needs to be granted permissions via either a
`ClusterRoleBinding` or a `RoleBinding`.

The way in which LDAP users and LDAP groups can be referred as subjects of a
cluster role or role binding depends on the `groups_prefix` and
`username_prefix` configuration attributes values of the [LDAP provider][sp].
For example, for the groups prefix `ldap` and the group `dev`, the resulting
group name in Sensu is `ldap:dev`.

> **Problem**: Permissions are not granted via the LDAP group(s)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Issue**: Permissions are not granted via the LDAP group(s)
```

During authentication, the LDAP provider will print in the logs all groups found
in LDAP, e.g. `found 1 group(s): [dev]`. Keep in mind that this group name does
not contain the `groups_prefix` at this point.

> The RBAC component will print in the logs each attempts made to authorize a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Sensu backend logs each attempt made to authorize an RBAC
```

> request. This is useful for determining why a specific binding didn't granted

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
request. This is useful for determining why a specific binding didn't grant
```
